OSDOCS-2978: Upstream Kubernetes Overview (#47669)
openshift/openshift-docs: getting_started/kubernetes-overview.adoc

.Evolution of container technologies for classical deployments
image::247-OpenShift-Kubernetes-Overview.png[]

To solve this problem, you can use containerization technologies that segregate applications in a containerized environment. Similar to a VM, a container has its own filesystem, vCPU, memory, process space, dependencies, and more. Containers are decoupled from the underlying infrastructure, and are portable across clouds and OS distributions. Containers are inherently much lighter than a fully-featured OS, and are light weight isolated processes that run on the operating system kernel. VMs are slower to boot, and are an abstraction of physical hardware. VMs run on a single machine with the help of Hypervisor.

You can perform the following actions by using Kubernetes:

* Sharing resources.
* Orchestrating containers across multiple hosts.
* Installing new hardware configurations.
* Running health checks and self-healing applications.
* Scaling containerized applications.

> 

Reviewer: @xenolinux I think that Kubernetes components can be its own conceptual module, which can help break up the overview a bit and allow for potential content resuse

Author: Done

|`kube-controller-manager`
|Governs the state of the cluster.

|`scheduler`
|Allocates pods to nodes.

|`etcd`
|Stores cluster data.

|`kube-api-server`
|Validates and configures data for the API objects.

|`kubelet`
|Runs on nodes and reads the container manifests. Ensures that the defined containers have started and are running.

|`kubectl`
|Allows you to define how you want to run workloads. Use the `kubectl` command to interact with the `kube-api-server`.

|Node
|Node is a physical or VM in a Kubernetes cluster. The control plane manages every node and schedules pods across the nodes in the Kubernetes cluster.

|`container-runtime`
|`container-runtime` runs containers on a host operating system. You must install container-runtime on each node so that pods can run on the node.

|Persistent storage
|Stores the data even after the device is shut  off. Kubernetes uses persistent volumes to store the application data.

|`container-registry`
|Stores and accesses the container images.

|Pod
|The pod is the smallest logical unit in Kubernetes. A pod contains one or more containers to run in a worker node.
|===

> A cluster is a single computational unit consisting of multiple nodes in a cloud environment. A Kubernetes cluster includes a control plane and worker nodes. You can run Kubernetes containers across various machines and environments. The control plane node controls and maintains the state of a cluster. You can run the Kubernetes application by using worker nodes. You can use the Kubernetes namespace to differentiate cluster resources in a cluster. Namespace scoping is applicable for resource objects, such as deployment, service, and pods. You can not use namespace for cluster-wide resource objects such as `storageclass`, nodes, and persistent volumes.

Reviewer 2: Per [OpenShift doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#general-references), When referring to API object terms in general usage, use lowercase and separate multi-word API objects.
```suggestion
A cluster is a single computational unit consisting of multiple nodes in a cloud environment. A Kubernetes cluster includes a control plane and worker nodes. You can run Kubernetes containers across various machines and environments. The control plane node controls and maintains the state of a cluster. You can run the Kubernetes application by using worker nodes. You can use the Kubernetes namespace to differentiate cluster resources in a cluster. Namespace scoping is applicable for resource objects, such as deployment, service, and pods. You cannot use namespace for cluster-wide resource objects such as storage class, nodes, and persistent volumes.
```

.Kubernetes cluster overview
image::247_OpenShift_Kubernetes_Overview-1.png[]

> A custom resource is an extension of the Kubernetes API. You can customize Kubernetes clusters by using custom resources. Operators are software extensions which manage applications and their components with the help of custom resources. Kubernetes uses a declarative model when you want a fixed desired result while dealing with cluster resources. By using Operators, Kubernetes defines its states in a declarative way. You can modify the Kubernetes cluster resources by using imperative commands.

Reviewer: Same here. I think Kubernetes resources can be its own conceptual module.

Author: Done

An Operator acts as a control loop which continuously compares the desired state of resources with the actual state of resources and puts actions in place to bring reality in line with the desired state.

.Kubernetes Resources
[cols="1,2",options="header"]
|===
|Resource |Purpose

|Service
|Kubernetes uses services to expose a running application on a set of pods.

|ReplicaSets

> |Kubernetes uses ReplicaSets to maintain the constant pod number.

Reviewer: Kubernetes uses the `ReplicaSets` resource

Author: Done

|Deployment
|A resource object that maintains the life cycle of an application.
|===

Kubernetes is a core component of an {product-title}. You can use {product-title} for developing and running containerized applications. With its foundation in Kubernetes, the {product-title} incorporates the same technology that serves as the engine for massive telecommunications, streaming video, gaming, banking, and other applications. You can extend your containerized applications beyond a single cloud to on-premise and multi-cloud environments by using the {product-title}.

.Architecture of Kubernetes
image::247_OpenShift_Kubernetes_Overview-2.png[]

> 

Reviewer: This "before getting started chunk of content" could be its own conceptual module called Conceptual guidelines or something similar

Before getting started with the {product-title}, consider these conceptual guidelines of Kubernetes:

* Start with one or more worker nodes to run the container workloads.
* Manage the deployment of those workloads from one or more control plane nodes.
* Wrap containers in a deployment unit called a pod. By using pods provides extra metadata with the container and offers the ability to group several containers in a single deployment entity.
* Create special kinds of assets. For example, services are represented by a set of pods and a policy that defines how they are accessed. This policy allows containers to connect to the services that they need even if they do not have the specific IP addresses for the services. Replication controllers are another special asset that indicates how many pod replicas are required to run at a time. You can use this capability to automatically scale your application to adapt to its current demand.

The API to the {product-title} cluster is 100% Kubernetes. Nothing changes between a container running on any other Kubernetes and running on the {product-title}. No changes to the application.

> The {product-title} brings added-value features to provide enterprise-ready enhancements to Kubernetes. The {product-title} CLI tool  (`oc`) is compatible with `kubectl`. While the Kubernetes API is 100% accessible within {product-title}, the `kubectl` command-line lacks many features that could make it more user-friendly. The {product-title} Container Platform offers a set of features and command-line tool like OC.

Author: Done
